---
title: "Running GoFSH"
weight: 10
---

## Running GoFSH

GoFSH is executed from the command line. The general form of the GoFSH execution command is as follows:

```shell
{{< terminal >}} gofsh {input-directory} {options}
```

where options include the following (in any order):

```text
-o, --out <out>                   the path to the output directory (default: ./fsh)
-l, --log-level <level>           specify the level of log messages: error, warn, info (default), debug
-d, --dependency <dependency...>  specify dependencies to be loaded using format dependencyId@version (FHIR R4 included by default)
-v, --version                     print goFSH version
-s, --style                       specify how the output is organized into files: group-by-fsh-type (default), group-by-profile, single-file, file-per-definition
-f, --fshing-trip                 run SUSHI on the output of GoFSH and generate a comparison of the round trip results
-i, --installed-sushi             use the locally installed version of SUSHI when generating comparisons with the "-f" option
-h, --help                        output usage information
```

While GoFSH is running, it will print status messages as it processes your project files. The following sections give further detail on using certain options.

### `style`
The `style` option has four values:
* `group-by-fsh-type`: Definitions are written to files based on what type of FSH definition they are (Alias, Profile, Extension, etc.). This is the default choice.
* `group-by-profile`:  Profiles are each written to an individual file. Instances and Invariants that pertain only to a certain Profile are then included in the same file as that Profile. The remaining definitions are grouped as in the `group-by-fsh-type` option.
* `single-file`: All definitions are written to one file.
* `file-per-definition`: Each standalone FSH definition is written to an individual file. Only Aliases are combined into one `aliases.fsh` file.

### `fshing-trip`
If this flag is added, after GoFSH runs, SUSHI will run on the output of GoFSH. The output of SUSHI will then be compared to the original input to GoFSH (FHIR is compared to FHIR), and a visualization of differences between the original input and the SUSHI output will be created in `<output-folder>/fshing-trip-comparison.html`. If the `--installed-sushi` flag is set, then this process will use whichever version of SUSHI you have globally installed. Otherwise GoFSH will use SUSHI version 1.1.0.

## GoFSH Inputs

GoFSH takes FHIR StructureDefinitions and other FHIR conformance definitions (e.g., ValueSets, CodeSystems) as input. GoFSH requires that these files be JSON. Every JSON file contained in the input directory, or its subdirectories, will be processed by GoFSH into FSH.


GoFSH does not require any configuration, but if the input FHIR artifacts depend on FHIR artifacts not contained in FHIR R4, these dependencies should be specified with the `-d` flag. For example, the [mcode-cancer-patient](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/mcode/StructureDefinition-mcode-cancer-patient.html) profile in the [mCODE Implementation Guide](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/mcode/) is derived from the [us-core-patient](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU3.1/StructureDefinition-us-core-patient.html) profile in the [US Core Implementation Guide](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/). If you wanted to use GoFSH to convert the mcode-cancer-patient profile to FSH, you should specify US Core as a dependency:
```shell
{{< terminal >}} gofsh ./mcode-definitions -d hl7.fhir.us.core@3.1.0
```

{{% alert title="Info" color="info" %}}
GoFSH can still generate FSH when dependencies are omitted, but the resulting FSH will be incomplete.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
GoFSH cannot generate FSH from XML inputs, only JSON is allowed.
{{% /alert %}}


## GoFSH Outputs

GoFSH populates an output directory, called **gofsh/** by default, with a **resources.fsh** file, which contains FSH definitions for all of the input FHIR StructureDefinitions. GoFSH will also generate a **config.yaml** file that can be used to configure SUSHI. If the input to GoFSH includes an ImplementationGuide resource, it is used to generate the configuration. Otherwise the configuration is generated by inferring values from the input, or by using sensible defaults if no values can be inferred. These definitions and configuration are ready to use with SUSHI, all you have to do is [run SUSHI](/docs/sushi/running).